Hello, everyone.
So we have successfully created two of the classes, the Rectangle, the Java class and the circle class.
And inside these two class the programming part was quite similar.
The arguments, the methods, the if statement, all of them are going to be like in the same manner.
Just the difference was in the name of the classes are now the next class we are going to create is
the line class like a class for the line.
And as we have already discussed that this line class is going to be a bit different from the rectangle
and the circle.
So yes, creating the line class and inside this line class, we are simply going to like initialize
view of global variables.
So in integer size.
It floored them and.
Oh, like.
Okay.
So firstly let us discuss what this means.
So if you are a bit aware about mathematics, so you must be knowing about slopes or if we are going
to draw a line, then definitely it should contain a slope.
It is a mathematical term you can like discover about it when you go across concepts of straight line.
So a straight line is a.
If the straight line is a simple line which has a specific angle from the X axis and the Y axis and
what actually the slope is.
So the slow pace, the angle made by this line.
From the accesses.
So slope is basically our tan y by x so distance from the y axis and distance from the x axis.
So this is a trigonometric term, but I hope that you all have a little bit idea about this concept
of straight line.
So this is going to be the slope for the straight line and it is going to be a float as it could be
a decimal number also.
So okay.
And this slide is for the side of the line.
Now the next part, we are going to create a constructor line.
Inside this constructor, we are going to call for arguments.
So X and Y are common as rectangle and circle and in text to an individual.
So we will be coming to this that what this in 2x2 is.
And culture and science are going to be same as the rectangle and the circle.
So colors an inch size, or if it is a line, then there should be a size.
Okay, so yes.
And color.
See inside now what is the x two and by two is.
So if we are concerned about a straight line, then it has two points, a starting point and an ending
point.
So the coordinates of the starting point are this X and Y and the ending point is X to y two.
So how the slope is going to be calculated as so this slope is basically y two minus y divided by x,
two minus x.
So this is a mathematical term.
We will be using this inside our execution for the slope calculation.
Now the super method x, y, x, two, y, two and c is going to be the arguments.
So yes.
Here it is.
We are done with the super method.
Now the next part is to access the size as it is or declared inside the class or the public class.
Now we have to access that site inside this constructor.
So to do so, we have to use this this keyword.
Okay.
So this this keyword we are going to use to access the sites.
Now, after this keyword, we are going to check that the starting point of the line and ending point
of the line is not same as there should be two different coordinates for the line.
So inside the if statement we are going to write x two is not equal to x.
In order to like forming a line, the coordinate should be different.
On this dirt floor should be, as we have already calculated it verbally, now doing it programmatically.
Why do miners why?
And this is how it is written.
So next to minus X, of course.
So X two minus x is going to be the slope.
Now.
The floor should be also covered inside the bracket.
Okay.
So float by two minus y, one by X to minus x.
X, one or X, whatever we call it.
So, yes, this is for the slop thing.
Now, what if this f if statement is not executed?
Like if they became same, then the line is up.
A line like.
Which is parallel to the x axis.
So as.
If the same x coordinate is going for the line, the suppose this is going to be a vertical line.
The X coordinate is going to be the same throughout.
Just look at the movement of the mouse.
So yes, this is going to be a vertical line with same x coordinates.
So the slope is going to be one for this case.
So simply calling this dot one.
So when the line is vertical, then the slope becomes one.
Then yes, this is going to be executed.
So now after initializing the line and its slope, now we are going to create a moving function in order
to make the line functional.
So we are going to do this inside of override function as we are already containing a line.
This is basically a function.
So to override that, we are creating a public void, move, function.
And inside this function the arguments are going to be integer X and integer Y and inside this function
what is going to be consistent?
So we have to move the line in a way like a distance from x axis and distance from y axis is going to
be changed and the width and the height of the line is going to be like.
Okay, so visualizing in ten.
So suppose this is a line.
So if we are talking about X and Y, then it is the starting point of the line as from where it is being
started and the x2y2 is going to be the width and the height of the line.
So basically the width and height of the line is going to be the thickness of the line and we are drawing
and the height of the line.
So here suppose this is the height of the line and that is a very thin line.
So the thickness is the width.
So in order to move that line, we have to use this keyword for the victim and what the weight is going
to be, it is going to be like x minus this dot x.
An.
This is going to be added in the initial report, which was.
Yes declared above her now in the similar way for Edge.
So there is a thickness of the line and that is height of line.
So we have to write it two times, just replacing the W head with H and X there with Y.
So X is going to be why everywhere in this land.
Okay, so this is how it is done.
Now this door text.
Is going to store X and this dot y is going to store Y.
Yes, it is as simple as that.
Now we have created the move function.
Now, after this function, we are going to create a contains function, which is going to contain that
if the height and width of the line is somehow different from what what we have said in the control
panel, then a final statement should be written in this way that if this is greater than this dot x,
so this is the starting point, this X and this W is going to be the length to which this line is going
to be stretched.
So, yes, we are going to check this that if the initial point is greater than that, then we have
to return the control to X and Y.
This is basically for stopping this.
So suppose that we want to like draw a line of height ten centimetres.
Then once the mouse is started from this point and once we reach the ten centimetre range, then that
control should be then return to that point, which means that this line should be completed.
Now we cannot increase and decrease the size of this line again and again.
And we have done this for all four of them, like for the x y axis and for the height and width.
And as if this is not true, then it should return false.
And the user will fail to draw a line, which was the purpose of this function.
Now, after this, inside this line function, we are going to like create a control function.
Like what?
What actually control by giving the control back to that X and Y coordinate means.
So this is going to be a Boolean data type function control.
And inside this control function we are passing arguments, float X and float y.
Okay.
So it's inside this float and X and float Y.
We are going to check.
So basically that control function is going to check that the what should be the minimum dimension of
this line.
There should be a thickness and the distance from X and y axis.
So this control is basically controlling the dimension of the line that yes, this I integer I inside
this for loop is are executing and again and again from -20 to plus 20.
And if this Y which is going to be the Y coordinate of the line subtracted by Y plus c, so this difference
should be equal to the x like what is this?
The same is y by x.
So basically the slope checking is done with the help of this control function that the x and y axis
should make alignment with this line in that manner that the slope remains same throughout the axis.
So this is basically a mathematical checking of this line that the slope should remain the same throughout
the axis.
The line should be straight.
Actually, what is it actually like signified by this control statement?
And if this is not so, then it is going to return false and no line will be drawn in result.
Now we have a size variable declared here as a global variable, so we are going to access this size
across other function which we will be creating or we have created.
So in order to do so or to update this size inside any other function or to access this size like inside
any other function, we have to use, get and set method or for this size variable.
So in order to do so, we have to create a public get size function, which is going to like access
the size of the line and this will simply return the size of the line.
So yes, this is how the get size function is made.
Now, similarly for the set of function, said function is going to update the size whenever it is needed
and it is going to be a via void function as it is not going to return anything.
And inside this we are passing the new size, which is of course the updated size of the line.
And this is going to simply update this dot size to the new size.
So the size variable is stored somewhere.
So to access it again, again, again, we are using this keyword.
Also, this dot size will store the new size of line inside this such size function and whenever like
changing the size or access in the size is needed inside any function or class, then we will be using
simply this get size and this size.
So the suggestions will also suggest does the right thing get it will suggest that we have created get
size and also for the set.
If we right set then it will suggest that we have already created a set size get size function or you
can simply call it here and update our access the size of the length.
Now we are done with this line.
Plus in the next part we will be creating like we have already created our main function.
So we will be writing the code inside our main function and look how actually that things are going
to be put up inside this frame, how the control panel is going to be fitted inside the frame.
And after that we will be creating this empty space or we can call it as drawing area or Java class.
So after that, that is going to be the final class which we will be creating.
So yes, our two more classes are left to be created and we will see that in the next part.